examples/todomvc/readme.md, before:

# Tungsten.js + Backbone TodoMVC Example

Example application showing how [TodoMVC](http://todomvc.com/) can be implemented with Tungsten.js and [Backbone.js](http://backbonejs.org/).

## Run

    npm install
    npm start
    
## License

Assets and code from [TodoMVC](https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc) is MIT licensed:

> Copyright (c) Addy Osmani, Sindre Sorhus, Pascal Hartig, Stephen Sawchuk.
> 
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
> 
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
> 
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Add install note for examples

examples/todomvc/readme.md, after:

# Tungsten.js + Backbone TodoMVC Example

Example application showing how [TodoMVC](http://todomvc.com/) can be implemented with Tungsten.js and [Backbone.js](http://backbonejs.org/).

## Run

    # Run `npm install` on the main tungstenjs directory
    npm install
    npm start
    
## License

Assets and code from [TodoMVC](https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc) is MIT licensed:

> Copyright (c) Addy Osmani, Sindre Sorhus, Pascal Hartig, Stephen Sawchuk.
> 
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
> 
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
> 
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
